.TH FRAMEWORK 3 "2025-12-19" "Equinox Framework 1.0" "Equinox Framework Manual"
.SH NAME
framework \- core framework initialization and utility functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <framework.h>
.PP
.B Initialization
.BI "int framework_init(void);"
.BI "int framework_shutdown(void);"
.PP
.B Logging
.BI "void framework_log(LOG_LEVEL " level ", const char *" format ", ...);"
.BI "void framework_set_log_level(LOG_LEVEL " level );
.PP
.B Error Codes
.B #define FRAMEWORK_SUCCESS          0
.B #define FRAMEWORK_ERROR_NULL_PTR   -1
.B #define FRAMEWORK_ERROR_INVALID    -2
.B #define FRAMEWORK_ERROR_MEMORY     -3
.B #define FRAMEWORK_ERROR_NOT_FOUND  -4
.B #define FRAMEWORK_ERROR_EXISTS     -5
.B #define FRAMEWORK_ERROR_STATE      -6
.B #define FRAMEWORK_ERROR_DEPENDENCY -7
.B #define FRAMEWORK_ERROR_CALLBACK   -8
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The framework API provides core initialization, logging, and utility functions for the Equinox Framework.
.PP
.BR framework_init ()
initializes the framework and must be called before any other framework functions. This sets up the logging system and internal data structures.
.PP
.BR framework_shutdown ()
shuts down the framework and releases all global resources. This should be called when the application is terminating.
.PP
.BR framework_log ()
writes a log message with the specified
.I level
and formatted message. This function accepts printf-style format strings and arguments.
.PP
.BR framework_set_log_level ()
sets the minimum log level for messages to be displayed. Messages below this level will be filtered out.
.SH LOG LEVELS
The following log levels are available, in order of increasing severity:
.TP
.B LOG_LEVEL_DEBUG
Detailed information for debugging
.TP
.B LOG_LEVEL_INFO
Informational messages about normal operation
.TP
.B LOG_LEVEL_WARNING
Warning messages about potential issues
.TP
.B LOG_LEVEL_ERROR
Error messages about failures
.SH ERROR CODES
Framework functions return error codes to indicate success or failure:
.TP
.B FRAMEWORK_SUCCESS
Operation completed successfully (value: 0)
.TP
.B FRAMEWORK_ERROR_NULL_PTR
A required pointer parameter was NULL
.TP
.B FRAMEWORK_ERROR_INVALID
Invalid parameter or data
.TP
.B FRAMEWORK_ERROR_MEMORY
Memory allocation failed
.TP
.B FRAMEWORK_ERROR_NOT_FOUND
Requested resource was not found
.TP
.B FRAMEWORK_ERROR_EXISTS
Resource already exists
.TP
.B FRAMEWORK_ERROR_STATE
Operation invalid for current state
.TP
.B FRAMEWORK_ERROR_DEPENDENCY
Dependency requirement not met
.TP
.B FRAMEWORK_ERROR_CALLBACK
Callback function failed
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR framework_init ()
and
.BR framework_shutdown ()
return FRAMEWORK_SUCCESS (0) on success, or a negative error code on failure.
.PP
.BR framework_log ()
and
.BR framework_set_log_level ()
do not return a value.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <framework.h>

int main(void) {
    /* Initialize framework */
    if (framework_init() != FRAMEWORK_SUCCESS) {
        fprintf(stderr, "Framework initialization failed\\n");
        return 1;
    }
    
    /* Set log level */
    framework_set_log_level(LOG_LEVEL_INFO);
    
    /* Log messages */
    framework_log(LOG_LEVEL_INFO, "Application starting");
    framework_log(LOG_LEVEL_DEBUG, "Debug info: value=%d", 42);
    framework_log(LOG_LEVEL_ERROR, "An error occurred: %s", "test");
    
    /* Application logic here */
    
    /* Shutdown framework */
    framework_shutdown();
    return 0;
}
.fi
.SH NOTES
.BR framework_init ()
must be called before using any other framework functions.
.PP
Log messages are written to standard output with timestamps and log level indicators.
.PP
The default log level is LOG_LEVEL_INFO. Debug messages are only shown if the log level is set to LOG_LEVEL_DEBUG.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR application (3),
.BR module (3),
.BR http_server (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Equinox Framework Development Team
